Building a simple database is not as complex as it may initially seem to be, but an individual database can quickly become something complicated as detail and relationships stack up. In order to build a good database, it is helpful to spend some time initially setting it up and thinking through what sorts of information you want to store and how it might be used. To get an idea of how other organizations are handling online car sales, we started the process of creating a database with some competitive analysis. While we have only detailed our analysis of TrueCar in this paper, we also spent time looking at other competitors to really get a sense of what all exists in production and active usage today.
	From there, we moved into building a sitemap. This helped us think backwards about a database. When you envision and gain understanding of what your end user will be looking for, it’s easier to envision the sorts of data you might want to collect and store and what the relationships between those data points might entail.
	We also created business rules and requirements. These are usually crafted by stakeholders and end users to help database designers understand what the database must do and be capable of. They’re incredibly useful for understanding how the items in a database might relate to each other and seeing what gaps in information you might not have anticipated need to go into the database.
	Next we created an entity relationship diagram (ERD). This diagram is crucial for envisioning how the tables inside a database relate to each other. It helped us eliminate the many to many relationships that cannot exist in a relational database and begin establishing bridge tables to make the database fit together. At times, the relationship between two things in quartzythe real world doesn’t directly match up with what exists in the database and the ERD can help us understand that variation.
	After researching competitors, making a sitemap, writing business rules, and creating the ERD, we were finally ready to create tables and begin inserting data. While the data we have used is nowhere near an exhaustive list of electric vehicles on the market, it is substantive enough to get a sense of the information in the database and how it all connects. We have included the SQL code used to create the tables, insert the data, and some SQL to show you how you might use this database to pull up existing data.
	Next, we were ready to connect our database to the server. We have used our SQL queries to build the database application. Our database was connected to the localhost server using PHP language. Afterwards, we imported all the data to the local server. In order for the end-user to easily navigate through our website, we have inserted pictures, table header and column name. Our database is now ready for use. This database will help the end user to easily navigate from the website and extract the appropriate information they require.
